doc: update security-release process to automated one (#53877)
nodejs/node: doc/contributing/security-release-process.md

## Planning

> 1. **Generating Next Security Release PR**

Reviewer: Sentence style (throughout the doc)

   * Run `git node security --start` inside [security-release][] repository.
   * This command generates a new `vulnerabilities.json` file with HackerOne
     reports chosen to be released in the `security-release/next-security-release`
     folder.

>    * It also creates the Pull Request used to manage the security release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * It also creates the pull request used to manage the security release.
```

2. **Review of Reports:**
   * Reports can be added or removed using the following commands:

>      * Use the "summary" feature in HackerOne. Example [2038134](https://hackerone.com/bugs?subject=nodejs\&report_id=2038134)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * Use the "summary" feature in HackerOne. Example [2038134](https://hackerone.com/reports/2038134)
```

     * `git node security --add-report=report_id`
     * `git node security --remove-report=report_id`

3. **Assigning Severity and Writing Team Summary:**

>    * Assign a severity and write a team summary on HackerOne for the reports

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to link to the place in the UI where you do this?

     chosen in the `vulnerabilities.json`.
   * Run `git node security --sync` to update severity and summary in
     `vulnerabilities.json`.

4. **Requesting CVEs:**
   * Request CVEs for the reports with `git node security --request-cve`.

>    * Make sure to have a green CI before running it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Make sure to have a green CI before requesting a CVE.
```

> 5. **Choosing or Updating Release Date:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **Choosing or Updating Release Date:**
   * Get agreement on the planned date for the release
```

   * Use `git node security --update-date=YYYY/MM/DD` to choose or update the
     release date.
   * This allows flexibility in postponing the release if needed.

6. **Get release volunteers:**
   * Get volunteers for the upcoming security release on the affected release

>      lines.

Reviewer: Could you add information on what these volunteers will do?

> 7. **Preparing Pre and Post Release Blog Post:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. **Preparing Pre and Post Release Blog Posts:**
```

   * Create a pre-release blog post using `git node security --pre-release`.
   * Create a post-release blog post using `git node security --post-release`.

## Announcement (one week in advance of the planned release)

1. **Publish Pre-Release Blog Post:**
   * Publish the pre-release blog post on the `nodejs/nodejs.org` repository.

2. **Send Pre-Release Accouncement:**
   * Notify the community about the upcoming security release:

>      * `git node security --notify-pre-release`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * `git node security --notify-pre-release`   
   Except for those noted in the list below, this will automatically the issues and emails needed for the notifications.
```

>      * (Not yet supported) [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/g/nodejs-sec)

Reviewer 2: ```
     * (Not yet automatic - do this manually [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/g/nodejs-sec)
```

>      * (Not supported yet)[Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/g/nodejs-sec)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * (Not yet supported) [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/g/nodejs-sec)
```

       * Email: notify <oss-security@lists.openwall.com>

>      * (Not yet supported) [Twitter / X](https://x.com/nodejs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * (Not yet automatic - do this manually) [Twitter / X](https://x.com/nodejs)
```

Reviewer 2: We should also like include the link/instructions on how to do that.

Reviewer 2: I would pull the instructions from the existing version to explain how to do it.

>      * (Not supported yet)[Twitter](https://twitter.com/nodejs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * (Not yet supported) [Twitter / X](https://x.com/nodejs)
```

     * [docker-node](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/issues)
     * [build-wg](https://github.com/nodejs/build/issues)
       We specifically ask that collaborators other than the releasers and security

>        steward working on the security release do not tweet or publicise the release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       steward working on the security release do not tweet or publicize the release
```

>        until the tweet from the Node.js twitter handle goes out. We have often

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       until the tweet from Node.js goes out. We have often
```

I don't think you need to include the verbiage here. Sayings it's a tweet implies that it's from Twitter (X)

>        seen tweets sent out before the release and associated announcements are
>        complete which may confuse those waiting for the release and also takes
>        away from the work the releasers have put into shipping the releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       seen tweets sent out before the release is
       complete, which may confuse those waiting for the release and take
       away from the work the releasers have put into shipping the release.
```

> If the security release will only contain an OpenSSL update consider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the security release will only contain an OpenSSL update, consider
```

adding the following to the pre-release announcement:

```text
Since this security release will only include updates for OpenSSL, if you're using

> a Node.js version which is part of a distribution which uses a system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a Node.js version which is part of a distribution that uses a system
```

> installed OpenSSL, this Node.js security update might not concern you. You may
> instead need to update your system OpenSSL libraries, please check the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installed OpenSSL, this Node.js security update may not concern you, instead,
you may need to update your system OpenSSL libraries. Please check the
```

> security announcements for the distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
security announcements for more information.
```

```

## Release day

> 1. **Lock down the CI:**

Reviewer 2: There used to be checkboxes and the steward could copy the security-release-process.md doc into the issue for the release and use the checkboxes to track progress.  The checkboxes are not in this doc, but are they in the issue created for the release (if there still is one?)

Author: There's no issue anymore. We use the Next Security Release PR instead. I didn't add checkboxes as it will be all automated, but I'll include checkboxes for manual steps.

   * Lock down the CI to prevent public access to the CI machines, ping a member of `@nodejs/jenkins-admins`.

2. **Release:**

>    * Make sure the CI on all release proposals is green (test-V8, CITGM, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Verify the CI is green on all release proposals (test-V8, CITGM, etc).
```

>    * Follow the release process documented [here](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/releases.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Follow the [release process](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/doc/contributing/releases.md).
```

3. **Unlock the CI:**
   * Unlock the CI to allow public access to the CI machines, ping a member of `@nodejs/jenkins-admins`.

4. **Publish Post-Release Blog Post:**
   * Publish the post-release blog post on the `nodejs/nodejs.org` repository.

5. **Notify the community:**

>    * Notify the community about the upcoming security release:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * Notify the community that the security release has gone out:
```

     * Slack: `#nodejs-social`
     * [docker-node](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/issues)
     * [build-wg](https://github.com/nodejs/build/issues)

>      * Email: notify <oss-security@lists.openwall.com>

Reviewer 2: Is this still manual, if so it would be good to say that and to say to comment on the issues that were automatically  created in the earlier step

Also is `nodejs-sec` missing from the list?

## Post-Release

1. **Merge the Next Security Release PR:**
   * This involves moving the `vulnerabilities.json` file from
     `security-release/next-security-release` to the `security-release/YYYY-MM-DD`
     folder and merging the PR.

2. **Cleanup:**
   * Close PRs and backports.
   * Close any pending PRs related to the security release.
   * Close HackerOne reports:
     * Close Resolved
     * Request Disclosure
     * Request publication of H1 CVE requests

>      * In case the reporter doesn't accept the disclosure follow this process:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as mentioned, it may just be easier to include the link to the post on Node.js org where the security release details are shared.
```

    release date.
  * This allows flexibility in postponing the release if needed.

* [ ] 6\. **Get release volunteers:**
  * Get volunteers for the upcoming security release on the affected release
    lines.

* [ ] 7\. **Preparing Pre and Post Release Blog Posts:**
  * [ ] Create a pre-release blog post using `git node security --pre-release`.
  * [ ] Create a post-release blog post using `git node security --post-release`.

## Announcement (one week in advance of the planned release)

* [ ] 1\. **Publish Pre-Release Blog Post:**
  * Publish the pre-release blog post on the `nodejs/nodejs.org` repository.

* [ ] 2\. **Send Pre-Release Announcement:**
  * Notify the community about the upcoming security release:

    * [ ] `git node security --notify-pre-release`
      Except for those noted in the list below, this will create automatically the
      issues and emails needed for the notifications.
    * [docker-node](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/issues)
    * [build-wg](https://github.com/nodejs/build/issues)
    * [ ] (Not yet automatic - do this manually) [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/g/nodejs-sec)
      * Email: notify <oss-security@lists.openwall.com>

>     * [ ] (Not yet automatic - do this manually) Post in the \[nodejs-social channel]\[]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * [ ] (Not yet automatic - do this manually) Post in the [nodejs-social channel][]
```

Reviewer 2: The nodejs-social-channel was not rendering correctly, guessing it was the backslashes.
